Welcome everyone to a continued discussion on deep learning natural language processing.
In this next series of lectures we're going to be building out a question and answer Bob so we'll be
implementing a chat bot that can answer questions based on a story given to the but this is going to
be some pretty advanced state of the art stuff.
So we'll be using the babby dataset or baby dataset released by Facebook research and there's a link
there or you can just google search the term in order to figure out more about the datasets raising
a particular subset of that dataset which has stories questions and answers but there's actually lots
of different versions with different types of questions.
So the type of data we're going to be working with has three main components.
It has a story component.
So for example we can have a simple story of Jane went to the store.
Mike ran to the bedroom and sometimes within the paper they also refer to this as these sentences.
So we have a story and then we'll have a yes or no question.
And the question here is Is Mike in the store and our network is going to able to understand that since
Mike ran to the bedroom.
He is not in the store.
So we have a correct answer of no.
So again three main components the data a story a question or answer so a story or sentences question
a query and then an answer so we're going to be following along with a paper called end to end memory
networks by the following authors and a really key part to continuing on throughout these lectures is
that you really must read the paper to understand how this network works.
We'll be doing a brief overview of the paper here.
They should check out the resource link download the PDA and read the entire paper.
It's going to take a while to read.
It's probably about an hour long to really read it and understand it.
But keep that in mind that's going to really help you understand how we're actually building the model
and where we're getting our architecture of the network from so the overall idea of the model is that
it's going to take in a discrete set of inputs x 1 x 2 x etc. all the way to X event and those will
be the actual sentences or stories and those are going to be stored in the memory and then we'll also
take a corresponding query.
Q And then we're going to output an answer A.
So each of the X Q and A.
So that's the story.
The question answer are going to contain symbols coming from a dictionary.
With the amount of words so we'll be calling V a vocabulary.
So have a set or dictionary that contains the entire vocabulary across the entire datasets.
Basically what words are there words like journeyed bedroom Sandra.
Mike the names the places how they got there and we'll have a vocab length as well.
So then the model is going to write all x to the memory up to a fixed the buffer size and then finds
a continuous representation for the x and q so it's actually explore what this would look like.
And there's three main components to the end to end network.
There's gonna be the input memory representation basically how do we actually take in these stories
and the questions then we have an output memory representation and then we're gonna be able to generate
a final prediction.
And once we have that sub component of the network we're essentially going to create a full model using
recurrent neural networks with multiple layers.
So let's first discuss what a single layer looks like.
So this is a diagram representing the single layer.
So there's a single layer case which implements a single memory hop operation and then we'll show you
how you can expand this to multiple hops in memory simply using recurrent neural networks.
So we first start off with the first key component of the single layer which is the input memory representation.
So what we're going to receive is an input set of x of 1 x of 2 x 3 etc..
Remember those are the sentences or stories to be stored in memory.
And we're going to convert that entire set of Xs into memory vectors.
So those memory vectors we're gonna call em sub AI.
So you can see here we essentially have two types of encoders and the bottom one is the M survives.
That's one of the inputs there.
So then we're going to use is we'll use cares for embedding this to convert sentences and then we later
on have another embedding an encoder process for C sub AI and we'll also be getting that question or
query calling.
Q And that's also going to be embedded so we'll embed that to obtain an internal state which you will
label you.
So you can see at the bottom of the diagram we have Question Q It's going through an embedding process
and then we have the result which is just going to be an internal state of this embedding inside the
single layer called you and in the embedding space.
So within this single layer we're going to compute the match between you and memory M sub AI by taking
the inner product followed by a soft Max operation so that will look something like this.
We take that question embedded through embedding B then we have you.
And then we're going to take you transpose take the product of that with M sub I remember that's the
embedding of the sentences and take the soft max of that and then you get p sub AI so you can essentially
see that's what's going on from the bottom as well as the left hand side.
So that's the input memory representation and then we're going to need the output memory representation
so for the output memory representation each x AI has a corresponding OutPut vector C sub AI and this
is given in the simplest case by another embedding matrix which we'll just call C.
So that's kind of that top embedding embedding C then the response vector from the memory O is then
a sum over the transform inputs C sub I waited by the probability vector for the input and here's the
equation 0 is equal to the sum of PMI times see Evi and because the function from input output is smooth
we can then compute gradients and back propagate through this then the final third step is generating
a single final prediction.
So in this single layer case what we're gonna do is the sum of the output vector 0 and the input embedding
U is passed through a final weight matrix that will label a capital W here and then a soft Max is used
to produce the predicted label.
So we have that final weight matrix W and then we have 0 plus U and we pass it in through a soft Max
and that's essentially going to give us probabilities of the predicted answer.
So note what's actually happening here this network is actually going to produce a probability for every
single word in the vocabulary however we should only expect some relatively high probability on either
the yes or no and I'll become more clear when we actually code this out we can then expand that this
single layer into multiple layers using what we already know about recurrent neural networks we're simply
going to take the output of one of the single layers and have that be the input for the next layer.
So you can see here that the logic is essentially the same as what we saw in the single air we're just
repeating it over and over again taking the inputs from one layer and then setting that to be the output
of the next layer just as we discussed previously with recurrent natural networks so let's begin now
exploring how we can build out this network with Python and carers and please keep in mind I would highly
recommend that you read the paper before continuing on to the code it's really gonna help your understanding
of what we're actually typing out with cares.
OK I'll see you in the next lecture.